### 3. Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters

Given a string s, find the length of the longest substring without duplicate characters.

 

Example 1:

Input: `s = "abcabcbb"`
Output: `3`
Explanation: The answer is `"abc"`, with the length of `3`. Note that `"bca"` and `"cab"` are also correct answers.

Example 2:

Input: `s = "bbbbb"`
Output: `1`
Explanation: The answer is `"b"`, with the length of `1`.

Example 3:

Input: `s = "pwwkew"`
Output:` 3`
Explanation: The answer is `"wke"`, with the length of `3`.
Notice that the answer must be a substring, `"pwke" ` is a subsequence and not a substring.

### Solution Explanation

- Use **Sliding Window** technique with the use of **set**
    - Python: `Set()`
    - C++: `unordered_set<data_type> charSet;`
    - Java: `Set<Character> charSet = new HashSet<>();`

- There's a window that expands to the **right** character by character. If encounter a character that is already in the window, **shrink** the window from the **left** until the duplicate is **removed**. If not duplicate, just add that character to the set.
    - Python: `char_set.add(s[right])`
    - C++: `charSet.insert(s[right]);`
    - Java: `charSet.add(s.charAt(right));`

- And then to **remove** if there are duplicates:
    - Python: `char_set.remove(s[left])`
    - C++: `charSet.erase(s[left]);`
    - Java: `charSet.remove(s.charAt(left));`

- Different ways to check if a character is already in the set:
    - Python: `while s[right] in char_set:`
    - C++: `while (charSet.find(s[right]) != charSet.end()) {`
        - `.find()` returns an iterator pointing to the current element 
        - `charSet.end()` returns the position right *after* the last element in the set.
    - Java: `while (charSet.contains(s.charAt(right))) {`

- Loops: Python does NOT have `for (int i; i <...; i++)`. What should we use instead so that `i` can still be efficiently incremented?
    - Python: `for right in range(len(s)):`
    - C++: `for (int right = 0; right < s.length(); right++) {`
    - Java: `for (int right = 0; right < s.length(); right++) {`

- **NOTE**: 
    - Java use `s.charAt(index)` to access an element in the string instead of `s[index]` like in Python and C++

    - Python does **NOT** have the `++` (increment) or `--` (decrement) operators. It uses `+=` or `-=` instead `left += 1` or `left = left + 1`


 
 